Telephone Etiquette Tips
The following checklist will assist you in practicing good telephone etiquette and performing your telephone answering responsibilities in a professional manner.
When you take a call, turn away from your computer, desk, and other work. Don’t allow other distractions to take your attention away from the caller.
Always have something available to write with.
Answer calls by the second or third ring.
Smile when you answer your calls. Even though the caller can’t see it, they’ll hear the smile in your voice.
Use a “telephone voice ” in which you control your volume and speed. Speak clearly.
Be enthusiastic and respectful.
Greet the caller, and identify yourself, your business, and your department.
Ask the caller, “To whom am I speaking? ”
Ask the caller, “How may I help you? ”
Avoid unnecessary jargon and acronyms in your conversations.
Use the caller’s name in your conversation.
Practice good listening skills.
If there is a problem, be concerned, empathetic, and apologetic.
Thank the caller for calling. Ask them to call again.
Never eat, drink, or chew gum while you are on a call.
What is the proper way to place a telephone call?
Identify yourself. ("Hello, my name is Anita Johnson, and I am a student at St. Vital Collegiate.")
Always know and state the purpose of your call. Have an ‘opener’ to hold and focus the attention of the people you call.
Think of all the topics that need to be discussed (and write them down) before initiating your call. This will avoid any unneeded, follow-up calls.
If the person you are calling sounds busy, ask if you can call back at a more convenient time.
If you want your call returned, give your name, your telephone number, and a time when you can be reached.
Use available technology such as answering machines (keep the message brief and clear, state the time and date, repeat numbers slowly, sign off positively, and never hang up without leaving a message), email, and faxes to leave messages.
How should I answer the telephone?
Answer incoming calls quickly. (Try to answer the telephone by the second or third ring.)
Always identify yourself. At school, identify yourself and the school by name. Flin Flon Middle School. John speaking.").
Do not simply ask "Who’s calling". This implies the calls are being screened. Something like "May I tell Mrs. Collier who is calling?" is much more appropriate.
If the call needs to be transferred, politely ask who is calling. (Ask before putting the caller on hold, and do not leave the caller on hold for long.)
Keep note-taking materials near the telephone. If you need to take a message, be complete and accurate.