Importance of Customer Follow Ups
Following up is an important aspect in client account management and customer service. It helps
you build trusting ongoing relationships with your clients. And the most significant sales are usually
the result of these relationships.
Like anything worthwhile, consistent follow‐up requires a lot of effort, but in the long run, follow‐ups
are more cost‐effective than acquiring new customers.
There are at least two obvious advantages of the following up process:
Keeping your actual customers.
A good follow‐up with your customers will convince them they’ve made a good choice in selecting to
work with you. Gain their trust and the next time they require any form of services Verztec offers,
they will come to you!
Generate referrals
A satisfied client will surely tell their friends and colleagues about you. Having already experienced
the benefits of your services, he/she will talk about them with first‐hand knowledge and he will get
you valuable referrals.
There are at least four methods that you can use to make your follow‐up efficient:
1. Post‐sale feed‐back
After completing deals with your customers, call and/or email them and ask if they were pleased
with the service provided, what they like most about working with you and what they would like to
be improved. Show them that you care about them.
When you ask customers for feedback and take into account their suggestions, they feel a sense of
ownership in what you're doing and you increase your chances of making them loyal to your
services.
2. Respond to your clients' needs
Your customers' plans and needs change in time. They might not be the same as the last time they
confirmed the last project with you. Be sensitive to each customer’s needs and offer them the
information that best suits their interests.
When you talk to your customers about the services offered by Verztec, don't hesitate to position
yourself as an expert in giving sound advice. If you are unsure on certain issues that the client ask,
always say that you will check internally and get back to them asap.
3. Consistent quality communication campaign
Keep in touch with your clients through a consistent quality communication campaign. You can use a
variety of communication tools ranging from email msgs, thank‐you notes, phone calls, faxes and
snail mails.
Make use of anniversaries and special occasions to thank your customers for their support. You can
send them nice greeting cards with a personal touch to show that you remember the important
events in their lives.
4. Getting personal
Meet your clients over coffee or lunch, or invite them to our office. Ask about their family, hobbies,
personal goals and so forth. When you show customers that you really care about them on a
personal level, their trust runs higher and it’s more likely to choose you again.
Conclusion
The basis of following up with your customers is to show them that you are not interested only in
closing deals, but in building relationships. Trust is the key‐element which motivates your customers
to keep coming back.